# Notes on Design

**Player-Oriented Simulation:** In order to keep things running smoothly (until I have optimized things much more and taken the project much further), I am going to simulate things like FOV from the player's point of view only. Most aspects of combat, movement, and environmental manipulation will only apply to the player fully, while only applying to AI entities to varying degrees.

**GURPS**: I want to implement a Roguelike adaptation of the GURPS system. I will start off using what is available in the GURPS-lite pamphlet (which does not include magic, but I will certainly include magic later). The game will initially be about navigating a wizard's tower, with minimal combat and mostly environmental challenges to work out the skill system. Later on I will include much more from the extended source material for GURPS. The GURPS combat system will be implemented one bit at a time, starting off very similar to the original Rogue but eventually having most of the GURPS system adapted for a grid-based system. The most viable approach is to make a Roguelike first and adapt GURPS mechanics in that context, rather than the other way around. For example, I am going to keep consumables in, as well as mostly Roguelike combat, but I will "GURPS-ify" these things to varying degrees. Since I have already implemented a fairly advanced look-and-target system, I am going to create a slew of interactive environmental systems so that the game does not have to rely entirely on combat, which is good for GURPS-ification.

**Sparse Combat**: For several reasons, I am going to do away with the "move to attack" system found in traditional Roguelikes. All attacks will be targeted attacks made via the ability menu, the same way all other abilities and skills will be used. The reason this will probably work is due to the fact that combat will be very sparse compared to most Roguelikes, with fights being short and highly consequential for the most part. Skill checks in general should be more common than combat, but the combat will be very intense because GURPs is a low HP, high damage system.

**Dodge, Block, Parry**: Dodge will happen automatically most of the time, as it is the only active defense which can be used on each enemy even if the others are used manually. When choosing active defenses the player will have several options, selectable from the abilities screen, with it defaulting to the most effective active defense if on auto. "All Out Defense" will be an ability, as will the ability to choose which active defense to apply to which enemy (as a toggle with defaults). The game will not ask the player if they want to apply an active defense via a prompt, so the player will either leave it on auto or select an active defense to toggle against a specific enemy before taking other actions.

**Highly Procedural**: Almost everything is going to be generated procedurally at a pretty high level. This is in part to make it easier to develop as a single person, and also because procedural generation is a hobby of mine. There will be very few, if any, data files for the game (even when much further along).

**Multiplatform**: Designing for Linux desktop first, but it should be portable to Android, Windows, and more if it ever gets to that point, due to the use of Jetpack Compose.